Ms. Sanders:
Good afternoon.
As you know, the President
welcomed the Emir of Qatar
to the White House today.
The two leaders discussed
the strategic relationship
and our cooperation on a
wide range of security
and economic issues.
This includes efforts to
bolster their military
capabilities and to
advance new commercial
deals that would create
tens of thousands
of American jobs.
The Emir reiterated his
commitment to counter
terrorist financing
and violent extremism.
As you may recall, just
a few weeks ago, Qatar
publicly designated 20
terrorist financiers
and 6 entities.
This is the latest in a
series of important steps,
but the President and Emir
agreed that there is more
progress to be made.
We are committed to
partnering in that effort.
Finally, the two leaders
discussed the urgent need
to resolve the
Gulf dispute.
The United States must be
able to work jointly with
a united Gulf Cooperation
Council to promote
regional security and
stability, and to stand
against Iran's
dangerous activities.
Also, as you may have
seen, the President spoke
this morning with British
Prime Minister Theresa May.
Both leaders condemned
Syrian President Assad's
vicious disregard for
human life and agreed not
to allow the use of
chemical weapons to continue.
To that end, the President
will not attend the Summit
of the Americas or travel
to Colombia,
as originally scheduled.
The Vice President will
travel to the summit in
his place and will meet
with the Colombian
President while
he's there in Peru.
President Trump will
remain in the United
States to oversee the
American response to Syria
and to monitor
developments around the world.
Looking ahead to this
afternoon, the President
is pleased to welcome the
University of Alabama
Crimson Tide football team
to the White House, in
celebration of their 17th
National Championship.
Pretty sure that was written
by somebody from Alabama.
(Laughter)
Coach Saban, UA
President Bell, and the
team captains will meet
with President Trump in
the Oval Office, and the
group will then join the
rest of the team and
hundreds of Tide fans out
on the South Lawn.
And that event will, of
course, be open to the press.
And with that, I will
take your questions.
And because it is her
birthday --
Nadia, I'm going to go with you.
And happy birthday.
The Press: Thank you.
Thank you, Sarah.
The President authorized
the use of military force
last year after President
Assad used chemical weapons.
But this didn't
seem to deter him.
The President talked
yesterday of a very strong
and serious response now.
How is he going to hold
President Assad accountable?
Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry,
could you repeat the last
part of the question?
The Press: How he's going
to hold
President Assad
accountable now?
Ms. Sanders: The
President has been clear.
We're working with our
partners and allies and
our national security team
to look at all options.
And as we've said, all
options are on the table,
but I'm not going to get
ahead of anything the
President or may not do in
response to what's taken
place in Syria.
Jon.
The Press: Sarah, talking
about the raid on Michael
Cohen's office, the
President said,
"It's an attack on
our country...
It's an attack
on what we all stand for."
In what way is an FBI raid
on Michael Cohen's office
an attack on our country?
Ms. Sanders: I think that
the President has been
clear that he thinks that
this has gone too far.
And beyond that, I don't
have anything to add, but
I'd refer you back to the
President's comments.
The Press: But that accounts
to an attack on our country?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I
think the President has
been clear what
his position is.
I don't have anything else
to add at this point.
The Press: Does the
President believe he has
the power to fire Special
Counsel Robert Mueller?
Does he believe that's
within his power?
Ms. Sanders: Certainly,
believes he has the
power to do so.
John.
The Press: If I could, you
have said several times
from the podium that the
President has neither the
intention nor is thinking
about firing Robert Mueller.
Does that remain
the case today?
Ms. Sanders: The President
was asked this question
directly last night, and I'd
refer you back to his comments.
The Press: Can I also ask:
What about Rod Rosenstein?
What's the President's
thinking about Rosenstein,
in terms of his tenure at
the Department of Justice?
He did not appear to be
very happy with him last night.
And can you confirm
that Rosenstein was the
high-level DOJ official
that signed off on the FBI
raid of Cohen's office?
Ms. Sanders: I'd refer
you to the Department of
Justice in terms
of their process.
Certainly, the President
has voiced his
frustrations, but beyond
that, I don't
have anything else.
Shannon.
The Press: Is the
President still open to
talking to Mueller?
Is he still open
to an interview?
Ms. Sanders: That's
something that I would
direct you to the
President's personal
attorneys to answer
that question.
The Press: And we asked
about Rosenstein.
What about FBI
Director Wray?
He was the one who signed
off, supposedly,
on this FBI raid.
Does the President still
have confidence in him?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I
would refer you to the
Department of Justice on
the process, and who did
or did not sign off.
That's not something that
we were a part of here.
The Press: But
specifically, on the
President's feelings about
the FBI Director, does he
have concerns about
the FBI Director?
Ms. Sanders: The President
has voiced his frustration
with the situation.
I haven't spoken with him
directly about Direct Wray.
Jill.
The Press: Two things.
Just to follow up on that,
has the President spoken
with either Jeff Sessions
or Rosenstein since the
raid yesterday?
Ms. Sanders: Not
that I'm aware of.
The Press: Okay.
And then I wanted to ask
you about the decision to
cancel the trip.
Can you walk us through
a little bit more of the
decision-making and why
the President felt like he
couldn't make a decision
-- he couldn't execute on
whatever he decides to
do while he's traveling,
considering that the
missile strike last year
was actually launched while
the President was in Mar-a-Lago?
Ms. Sanders: Mar-a-Lago happens
to be within the United States,
something I'm sure you're
very well aware of.
The President would like
to stay in the country
while there are a lot of
developments going on
around the world.
The Press: What does being
in the country -- how does
that benefit him?
Ms. Sanders: Again, I'm
not going to get into
specifics on intel matters
and things that we may or
may not do.
But the President and his
national security team
felt it was best that he
stay in the United States
while all of these
developments are taking place.
Jackie.
The Press: Does Michael Cohen
still represent the President?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not sure.
I would refer you to
Michael Cohen on that.
The Press: And when did
the President first learn
of the payment from
Michael Cohen to Stormy Daniels
and their
nondisclosure agreement?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not sure
on the exact timing.
Kristen.
The Press: And did
the President --
Ms. Sanders: Sorry, I'm going
to keep moving
because we're tight on time.
Kristen.
The Press: Just one
more question, Sarah.
If the President denies having
an affair with Stormy Daniels --
Ms. Sanders: Sorry,
Jackie, I'm going
to keep moving.
Go ahead, Kristen.
The Press: -- then
why did he instruct --
Ms. Sanders: Jackie,
I'm going to move on to Kristen.
Sorry, we're tight on time
with the visit
of the Alabama team
coming up soon.
Go ahead.
The Press: Well, just, can you
follow up on that question?
Ms. Sanders: I didn't
hear the question.
The Press: Does he
continue to deny having an
affair with Stormy -
The Press: Then why doesn't
he just instruct Mr. Cohen to --
Ms. Sanders: The President
has been clear.
He has addressed
this several times.
I don't have
anything else to add.
Brian.
The Press: I'd like to
follow up --
The Press: Sarah, let me just
ask my other question.
Can you just say
definitively, has the
President had any
conversations about firing
Jeff Sessions, Rod
Rosenstein, or Robert Mueller
in the
last 24 hours?
Ms. Sanders: I haven't had
any conversations
with him on that.
I can't speak beyond that.
The Press: And can you
clarify -- can you just
clarify his tweet?
Ms. Sanders:
Sorry, Kristen.
We got to keep
going, guys.
The Press: He called it
a "witch hunt,"
but Rod Rosenstein, who he
appointed, signed off
on the probe.
Ms. Sanders: Go ahead.
The Press: Well, answer
her if -- go ahead, Kristen.
The Press: Can you just
answer the question:
If the President appointed
Rod Rosenstein, and so how
can he call the raid
yesterday, a "witch hunt"
when it was approved
by the Deputy Attorney
General he appointed?
Ms. Sanders: Once again,
I'm not aware of what the
process is and who signs
off on those specific
types of things.
The President certainly
has been very clear about
what his position is when
it comes to matters of
collusion, and that's
what his reference is.
He thinks this entire
thing is a witch hunt.
I think we've spoken about
this at length, ad nauseam.
And frankly, I think it's
a big distraction that the
media has spent every
single day, for the last
year, focused on this
instead of some of the
biggest issues of our day
and some of the biggest
issues that the President
is dealing with, like
Syria, like North Korea,
like deregulation, tax cuts,
defeating ISIS.
Those are the -- that's
the focus of this
administration, and
frankly, that's what you
guys should spend a
little bit more time on.
The Press: My follow-up -- So,
Sarah, my follow-up question --
Ms. Sanders:
Hey, guys -- time out.
We're going to take -- you
yielded your time to Kristen.
I'm going to go to John.
The Press: No,
no, wait a minute.
I had a follow-up
question.
Please, if I may,
just a follow-up.
Ms. Sanders: Sorry.
All right, I'll come back
to you, Brian, for one.
The Press: Thanks.
You had said that it is a
little --
Ms. Sanders: I'm feeling
generous today.
The Press: Thank you.
Thank you.
Ms. Sanders: For
Nadia's birthday.
(Laughter)
The Press:
Jus two quick ones.
So, you said that it's
a witch hunt and you've
continued to characterize
it as that, but not so
much as this
administration also has
leveled sanctions against
the 13 Russians that were
indicted by the
Mueller investigation.
In some point, are you a
party to this witch hunt,
or is some of it, at
least, a legitimate effort?
Ms. Sanders: Just because
there many have been
involvement by Russia
doesn't mean there was
involvement by the
Trump campaign.
The Press: No, no, no --
Ms. Sanders: And to try to
conflate the two is insane.
The Press: No -- no,
that's not the question.
The question is: In some
ways, aren't you at least
supporting what
they've done?
Because they've indicted
some of the people that
you have leveled
sanctions against.
So, you're in agreement
with Mueller in at least
some regards, right?
Ms. Sanders: We've been
outspoken on a number of
occasions that we think
that Russia was involved
in election meddling
and we've taken actions
because of that.
But that has nothing to do
with whether or not the
President and his campaign
had anything to do with that.
The Press: That wasn't my
-- and then my quick --
Ms. Sanders: Sorry, I'm
going to keep moving.
The Press: And my quick
follow-up --
Ms. Sanders: John.
Guys, one at a time.
Go ahead, John.
The Press: Thanks
a lot, Sarah.
Ms. Sanders:
Sorry, right here.
The Press: Thanks
a lot, Sarah.
What is the --
Ms. Sanders: Kind of
crazy today.
(Laughter)
The Press:
Wha is the nature of the
President's relationship
right now with
Attorney General
Jeff Sessions?
He really voiced his
displeasure with him last
evening in his remarks.
Is it a good relationship?
Does he risk being
fired right now?
Ms. Sanders: I think the
President was pretty clear
about his frustrations
when he spoke about that
last night.
The Press: Another one.
Real quick, Sarah,
if you don't mind.
It's about the EPA
Administrator, Mr. Pruitt.
If it turns out that he
lied in the interview that
he gave with Fox News --
my colleague Ed Henry --
would that be problematic
for him in terms of
holding onto his job?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not going
to get into hypothetical
situations, but certainly
the President would expect
all members of his Cabinet
to be honest and certainly
open with the public.
Michael.
The Press: So, the
President last night
seemed to combine his
reaction to the Russia
investigation -- which
we've heard him say before --
and this new
investigation that has
grown out of the raids in
New York of his attorney.
Does he view that as one
in the same investigation?
In other words, does he
think that's all, kind of,
under the umbrella of
the Special Counsel?
Or does he view the Russia
investigation as separate
from the probe into the
payments by these women
that is apparently being
conducted by the U.S.
Attorney's office
in New York?
Ms. Sanders: I think
certainly that they are
separate investigation,
but I think that publicly
they have been
conflated quite a bit.
Steve.
The Press: Thank
you, Sarah.
Does the United States
expect that, in a response
to the Syria chemical
weapons attack, that other
nations will join in?
Specifically, we're seeing
indications from France
and the Saudis that they
may also take military action.
Ms. Sanders: We've had a
number of conversations,
both the President with
President Macron and Prime
Minister May, and at
various other levels --
not just with those
countries, but others, at
an administration level.
And we're going to
continue to work with a
number of our partners and
allies as we determine
what the next
best steps are.
April.
The Press: Sarah,
two questions.
The President said
yesterday he was
compliant; that he turned
over a million documents.
If he was compliant with
these investigation, why
was there a search
warrant needed?
Ms. Sanders: This doesn't
have anything to do with
the President, and I would
refer you
to Michael Cohen
and his attorney.
When it comes to matters
of the Special Counsel and
dealings with the
President, we've been
fully cooperative.
The Press: Okay, and
the next question.
With all of this turmoil,
particularly this last
week, has the President
at any time thought about
stepping down
before or now?
Ms. Sanders: No.
And I think that's an
absolutely ridiculous question.
The Press: No, it's
not ridiculous.
It's not ridiculous.
Ms. Sanders: I gave you
two questions, April.
We're moving on.
Jordan, go ahead.
The Press: It is a
legitimate question.
It's not ridiculous.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah.
Did the National Security
Advisor, John Bolton,
force Tom Bossert
out of his job?
Ms. Sanders: I'm not going
to get into specific
details about the
ongoings of personnel.
But I can tell you
that he resigned.
The President feels he's
done a great job and
wishes him the best
as he moves forward.
The Press: Sarah, the
President tweeted
favorably today about
some of the promises that
President Xi has made
toward instituting some
market reforms in China,
but he said this before.
Is it going to be enough
to avert some of the tariffs
that the President has been
talking about instituting?
Ms. Sanders: Certainly,
we are encouraged by
President Xi's words
and his kind words.
But at the same time,
we want to see concrete
actions from China, and
we're going to continue
moving forward in the
process and in the
negotiations until
those happen.
Pamela.
The Press: Has the
President spoken with
Michael Cohen
since the raids?
Ms. Sanders: Not
that I'm aware of.
The Press: And can I just
ask you -- you said that
he believes, he views this
as sort of crossing the line.
Can you explain a little
bit more why these raids
on his personal attorney
is viewed by the President
as crossing the line?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have
anything else to add on
that front right now.
Right here, in the front.
The Press: I just want
to clarify something
you said earlier.
You said the President
believes he has the power
to fire Robert Mueller,
because usually, most
legal experts believe that
he would have to order
Deputy Attorney General
Rod Rosenstein to fire
Mueller, and Rosenstein
could, of course, refuse.
Ms. Sanders: I know a
number of individuals in
the legal community,
and including at the
Department of Justice, that
he has the power to do so.
But I don't have any
further announcements on --
The Press: They've
consistently said that it is.
They've told
me; I've asked.
They've said it's Rod
Rosenstein oversees the
Special Counsel, and only
he has the power to fire
the Special Counsel.
Ms. Sanders: Again, we've
been advised that the
President certainly has
the power to make that decision.
I can't go anything
beyond that.
Dave.
The Press: Sarah, thanks.
The British government
said they're still looking
for confirmation that
Assad used chemical
weapons last weekend.
Is the President still looking
for confirmation of that?
Ms. Sanders: I can't get into
specific classified information.
But I can tell you we feel
confident in the comments
that we've made up
until this point.
John.
The Press: Thank
you, Sarah.
Two questions, with
brevity, on Ambassador Bolton.
(Laughter)
With the
resignations --
Ms. Sanders: We'll believe
when we see it, right?
(Laughter)
The Press: With the
resignations of Michael Anton
and now Tom Bossert, can
we expect any other
changes of
personnel in his family?
Ms. Sanders: I don't
have any other personnel
announcements to make at
this time -
The Press: The other question-
Ms. Sanders: -- but we'll
certainly keep you guys posted.
The Press: Right.
A year ago, Ambassador
Bolton was highly critical
in the op-ed
pages about U.S.
involvement with the World
Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.
With the World Bank-IMF
meeting coming up within a
matter of two weeks, is his
position going to affect U.S.
support for either
institution?
Ms. Sanders: I don't have
any policy changes on that
front at this time, and
don't expect any on that front.
Francesca.
The Press: Thank
you, Sarah.
Yesterday, President
Trump said something very
interesting about Syria.
He said that, "Because of
the power of the United
States and because of the
power of our country,
we're able to stop it."
Now, with bringing in
Ambassador John Bolton as well --
which is sort of a
signal of a more hawkish
stance, potentially --
I want to know if the
President has changed his
calculus in any way on
Syria and on whether or
not he wants to pull out
those troops very soon,
as he previously said.
Ms. Sanders: I addressed
the troops yesterday.
I don't have anything
new on that front.
In terms of things that
the President may or may
not do, we're not
going to broadcast.
And I don't have any
announcements on that front.
Fred.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah.
Yeah, this week, Senator
McConnell said they're
taking up six nominations
and that they're going to
continue taking up six
nominating per week.
Do you consider that a
major breakthrough for the
administration considering
there's been so many blocking --
Ms. Sanders:
We'd like to see them take
on a lot more than six,
but we're certainly glad
to see those six
move forward.
But we'd like to see them
move forward in a much
bigger fashion than just
the single digits right now.
The Press: And one
other question.
On U.S. Attorney Berman, he's
in an interim position
now in New York.
Reports have been that the
President was going to
nominate him
for full-time.
Is that still the case?
Will the President
nominate him?
Ms. Sanders: I don't
have any personnel
announcements
on that front.
Saagar.
The Press: Thanks, Sarah.
So, all of the evidence so
far in the Syrian chemical
attack points to the
use of chlorine gas.
The Assad regime has
been suspected of using
chlorine multiple times
on the battlefield.
What makes this particular
attack different and
warrant the international
response and the potential
use of lethal force that we're
seeing from this President?
Ms. Sanders: I can't
address specific
intelligence matters, but
I think everyone around
the world can see why
these recent attacks
are so horrific.
Beyond that, I can't get
into any other details.
Eamon.
The Press: Yeah,
thanks, Sarah.
To clarify your comment
here on Xi Jinping's
speech last night, it was
seen as rhetoric
around trade openness.
Are you saying that the
President didn't see
anything in that speech
that would encourage him
to back off on his threat
to impose tariffs
on the Chinese?
Ms. Sanders: We certainly
think it's a step in the
right direction and we're
encouraged by the words,
but we want to see
concrete steps and
concrete action
by the Chinese.
In the meantime, we're going
to continue moving forward.
The Press: What specific
actions do you want
to see from the Chinese?
What could they do here to
stave off those tariffs
at this point?
Ms. Sanders: This is going
to be something that's
part of private
negotiations that we have
with the Chinese.
But certainly, we want to
see more than just the
rhetoric, but we think
that's a very good sign in
moving in the
right direction.
We got time for
one last question.
Blake.
The Press: (Inaudible)
(Laughter)
The Press: And to pick up
on it I guess --
I missed that, I don't know.
Ms. Sanders: I didn't hear
it, so -- I think they
were saying they
thought you were great.
I'm pretty sure
that was it.
The Press: To pick up and
end off where Eamon just --
what he was just
talking about.
You said you want to see
concrete actions from the
Chinese as it
relates to trade.
Do you feel that there
will actually be, at some
point, concrete actions?
Or is all of this right
now hope and talk and --
Ms. Sanders: Again,
we certainly hope so.
We think this is an
encouraging step in the
right direction.
But at the same time,
we're going to continue
moving forward in the
actions that the President
has announced, and hopeful
that we see something come
out of the Chinese
government.
The Press: I ask because
it feels almost today like
it's been somewhat of
a lukewarm reception.
Is that accurate?
Ms. Sanders: No.
As the President himself
said, he appreciates
President Xi's kind words,
but we want to see
more than just words.
We want to see action, and
that's what we're focused
on pushing forward, is
making sure that we stop
the unfair trade
practices.
That's been what the
President is committed to --
not just rhetoric,
but actual action.
Thanks so much.
And we'll see you guys out
on the South Lawn as we
welcome the Crimson Tide.